Section : Workplace Health Policy and Promotion

Question: Do you have a written, up-to-date workplace health and wellbeing strategy that is visible and experienced by your employees every day?
Response: It was felt that although documented, this strategy is poorly communicated or provided with any guidance. The strategy is regarded by the team as difficult to find and navigate.

Question: Do you measure workplace health and wellbeing KPIs, and are these integrated into board-level reporting?
Response: Basic data collection is in place.

Question: Does the executive management team set and check the progress of workplace health and wellbeing KPIs regularly?
Response: The team only knows about limited areas that are measured, such as short and long term sickness absence. It is not known what is done with these KPIs.

Question: Are your policies effectively communicated to employees so they are aware of the health and wellbeing support available to them?
Response: There was a mixed level of knowledge on what policies exist and where they are located. It was felt there was inconsistency in sharing this information. However, a range of policies do exist.

Question: Are appropriate policies in place to support good employee health and wellbeing? Flexible working, remote working, mental health, menopause, miscarriage, childcare, etc.
Response: Yes, however, there could be a wider range of policies on offer that are more inclusive and diverse.

Question: Are workplace health and wellbeing initiatives considered as part of the training and retraining of employees, including the management team, and are policies in place to support this?
Response: This has been considered, and some form of e-learning is available. However, it is felt that the level of training is not sufficient enough to help managers feel confident in dealing with certain topics.

Section: Workplace Culture and Social Responsibility

Question: Does your organisation promote recognition? Praising staff for good work, making them feel valued and appreciated ?
What you said: There has been good work done in this area. There are performance and reflective practices regularly ans recognition is being provided at team meetings. However, more can be done in this area and organisation wide.

Question: re line managers assigned suitable time, training, and resources to ensure they balance business KPIs with concerns for the health and wellbeing of their teams?
What you said: No. The team have a heavy workload and is stretched thin, therefore time pushed. Having time to embed and deliver good health and wellbeing practices is difficult. There is also a lack of training.

Question: Is workload organised so that employees avoid the risk of work-related stress and burnout ?
What you said: No. Priorities are always shifting as the team grows. The workload is high and they're at maximum capacity with limited resources.

Question: Are employees given control (where possible) over flexible hours, how they do their work and where they work from?
What you said: Yes. Although the team feels that flexibility is good, there’s been a drop in togetherness.

Question: Does the organisation support a good balance and provide opportunities for purpose and connection? E.g., volunteering, fundraising, team challenges, etc.
What you said: No. The level of workload and project delivery does not allow for balance. The team feels there could be more opportunities for social and purposeful activities. This may bring more meaning to their work

Question: Do all employees have the necessary skills to perform their work and/or are they given the opportunity to acquire these skills?
What you said: There’s a wide range of roles in the team and training has been provided in the past. However, it’s felt that current learning and development takes a back seat due to workload and a lack of people resources.

Section: Planning of workplace health promotion

Question: Are your workplace health promotion measures based on a careful and regularly updated analysis of work stress, health indicators, risk factors, accident rates, absenteeism due to work-related illness, etc?
What you said: There are some absence-related measurements in place but there is a lack of transparency on what is fully measured and what it’s used for.

Question: Are wellbeing initiatives planned to help improve the successful achievement of business KPIs?
What you said: This doesn’t appear to be considered strategically.

Question:Are workplace health promotion measures planned and effectively communicated throughout the organisation?
What you said:This is done but it is felt that this could be better communicated to all members of the team, especially senior leaders

Question:When considering employee benefits, is a holistic approach taken to offer benefits that positively impact all areas of health and wellbeing?
What you said:The main offering is an employee assistance programme. It covers a range of health issues and support, but it is felt that it is a reactive benefit and used after the point of need, rather than preventatively.

Question:Do you have a named person or wellbeing champions that are responsible for organising the promotion of workplace health and wellbeing?
What you said: HR

Question:Do you know what resources you have available to successfully deliver your health and wellbeing plan? i.e. time, money, people
What you said:EAP. Don’t always have the time available to search for information and resources.

Section: Implementation of workplace health Promotion

Question: Is the data collected for effective planning and implementation of workplace health and wellbeing initiatives accurate and recorded systemically and regularly?
What you said: The organisation has engaged with the B-Heard Survey and there is an EAP in place, however, it is unknown what data is used and how often it is reviewed or used.

Question:Does the board actively plan, monitor, and evaluate the workplace health promotion initiatives and the impact this has on business KPIs?
What you said:No. It would be good to see this emerge on the agenda.

Question:Are all employees provided with the opportunity to complete a Wellbeing Action Plan (WAP) and are their individual needs considered?
What you said: This was introduced earlier this year to the digital team at a whole service update. However, some more clarity is required around if it is acceptable documentation for managers to use and more training is needed to roll it out successfully.

Question: Are KPIs for workplace culture and job performance, as well as KPIs to promote healthy behaviours implemented and are these KPIs interlinked to improve organisational outcomes?
What you said: At a department level, the team know what work needs to be done, but wellbeing and performance training would be beneficial for managers to align with wider strategic objectives.

Question: Do you actively support and implement health-related and social initiatives for employees to build interpersonal relationships?
What you said: Except for the quarterly whole service update for this department, there is a lack of time to build interpersonal relationships. This has been exacerbated more by both flexible and remote working.

Question: Are employees supported by their managers and do the managers support and implement a good working environment and culture?
What you said: This was felt to be good amongst the team and the wider organisation, but could always be better. It’s challenging as a team to be split across two different locations that are not accessible to each other.

Section: Results of Workplace Health Promotion

Question: Can you establish the effects of workplace health promotion measures on stakeholder satisfaction and can you draw conclusions from this?
What you said: The team are recognised for the good work that they do, which suggests the organisation's stakeholders are satisfied. However, there are no formal measurements in place to evidence this.

Question: Can you establish the link between workplace health promotion initiatives and other health and wellbeing KPIs and can you draw conclusions from this?
What you said: No. Not communicated to senior leaders within the digital team.

Question: Can you establish the effects of workplace health promotion measures on employee satisfaction, and can you draw conclusions from this?
What you said: Yes, from the B-Heard survey. But does it measure enough in terms of the impact work has on employee health and wellbeing? 

Question: Can you establish the link between workplace health promotion initiatives and other business KPIs including financial results and can you draw conclusions from this?
What you said: No. If measured it’s not communicated to senior leaders in the team.

Question: Can you establish the effects of workplace health promotion offerings on employee retention, and can you draw conclusions from this?
What you said: In specific areas, but not all areas.

Question: Can you establish the effects of your workplace health promotion offerings on recruiting and attracting employees to your organisations and can you draw conclusions from this?
What you said: Yes, recruitment is a challenge. However, more data on health and wellbeing initiatives and benefits is required.